# Escalabilidad sin estado en Kubernetes

Esta sección quiere mostrar las herramientas que ofrece Kubernetes para conseguir la escalabilidad en aplicaciones sin estado. Sin entrar en profundidad:

La escalabilidad sin estado en Kubernetes se consigue con el Deployment y con el "load balancer" que tiene el Service. Para tener autoscaling se le mete el Horizontal Pod Autoscaler y eso hace que el número de pods del deployment vaya cambiando en base a la carga. 

## Horizontal Pod Autoscaler 
The Horizontal Pod Autoscaler automatically scales the number of Pods in a replication controller, deployment, replica set or stateful set based on observed CPU utilization (or, with custom metrics support, on some other application-provided metrics). Note that Horizontal Pod Autoscaling does not apply to objects that can't be scaled, for example, DaemonSets.

The Horizontal Pod Autoscaler is implemented as a Kubernetes API resource and a controller. The resource determines the behavior of the controller. The controller periodically adjusts the number of replicas in a replication controller or deployment to match the observed average CPU utilization to the target specified by user

## Cluster Autoscaler 

is a tool that automatically adjusts the size of the Kubernetes cluster when one of the following conditions is true: 
 * there are pods that failed to run in the cluster due to insufficient resources.
* there are nodes in the cluster that have been underutilized for an extended period of time and their pods can be placed on other existing nodes.
Esta herramienta añade o quita nodos según la necesidad.






